Improving the HS negotiation description. (#116)
Haivision/srt-rfc: draft-sharabayko-srt.md

Handshake control packets (Control Type = 0x0000) are used to exchange peer configurations,
to agree on connection parameters, and to establish a connection.

> The Type-specific Information field is unused in case of the HS message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Type-specific Information field is unused in the case of the HS message.
```

~~~
{: #handshake-packet-structure title="Handshake packet structure"}

HS Version: 32 bits.
: The handshake version number. Currently used values are 4 and 5.
  Values greater than 5 are reserved for future use.

Encryption Field: 16 bits.
: Block cipher family and key size. The values of this field are

>   described in {{handshake-encr-fld}}. The default value is 0 - no encryption advertised.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  described in {{handshake-encr-fld}}. The default value is 0 (no encryption advertised).
```

>   If both peers do not advertise encryption, AES-128 is selected by default (see {{handshake-messages}}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  If neither peer advertises encryption, AES-128 is selected by default (see {{handshake-messages}}).
```

## Handshake Messages {#handshake-messages}

SRT uses UDP as an underlying connectionless transport protocol.
SRT is a connection-oriented protocol. It embraces the concepts of "connection"
and "session". Every SRT session starts with the connection phase, where
peers exchange configuration parameters and relevant information by the means of
SRT handshake control packets.

> SRT versions prior to v1.3.0 uses the version 4 of the handshaking procedure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SRT versions prior to v1.3.0 use version 4 of the handshaking procedure.
```

> Starting from SRT v1.3.0 the HS version 5 is used.
> The HS v4 is not described in this specification.
> SRT implementations MUST support HS version 5, but MAY not support HS v4.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
HS version 5 is used starting from SRT v1.3.0. 
HS version 4 is not described in this specification.
SRT implementations MUST support HS version 5, but MAY not support HS v4.
```

##### The Induction Response

The Listener responds with the following:

- HS Version: 5.
- Encryption Field: Advertised cipher family and block size.
- Extension Field: SRT magic code 0x4A17.
- Handshake Type: INDUCTION
- SRT Socket ID: Socket ID of the Listener
- SYN Cookie: a cookie that is crafted based on host, port and current time
  with 1 minute accuracy to avoid SYN flooding attack {{RFC4987}}.
- There MUST be no HS extensions.

At this point the Listener still does not know if the Caller is SRT or UDT,
and it responds with the same set of values regardless of whether the Caller is
SRT or UDT.

A legacy UDT party completely ignores the values reported in the HS Version and the Handshake Type field.  
It is, however, interested in the SYN Cookie value, as this must be passed to the next 
phase. It does interpret these fields, but only in the "conclusion" message.

#### The Conclusion Phase

##### The Conclusion Request

The SRT caller receives the Induction Response from the SRT listener. The SRT caller MUST check the Induction response from the SRT listener.

If the HS Version value is 5, the response came from SRT, and the handshake version 5 procedure is performed

> as covered further. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
as covered below. 
```

> If the HS Version value is 4, the legacy handshake procedure can be applied if supported. The procedure is deprecated and is not covered here.

Reviewer: `The procedure is deprecated and is not covered here.`

Is there a description in a previous version of the draft to which we can refer the reader?

The caller MAY reject the connection with the `SRT_REJ_VERSION` reason. In this case there is nothing to send to the SRT listener, as there is no
connection established at this point.

The Extension Flags field MUST contain the magic value 0x4A17. If it does not, the
connection MUST be rejected with rejection reason `SRT_REJ_ROGUE`. This is, among other things,
a contingency for the case when someone, in an attempt to extend UDT independently, increases the HS Version value to 5
and tries to test it against SRT. In this case there is nothing to send to the SRT listener, as there is no

> connection established at this point.

Reviewer: `In this case there is nothing to send to the SRT listener, as there is no
connection established at this point.`

Duplicate of text in lines 1598-1599

Author: - [ ] To be removed.

> If the Encryption Flag field is set to 0 - not advertised, the caller MAY advertise its own cipher and key length.
> If the induction response already advertises a certain value in the Encryption Flag, the caller MAY accept it or force its own value.
> It is RECOMMENDED that if a caller is to be sending the content, then it SHOULD force its own value. If it expects to receive a content from the
> SRT listener, then is it RECOMMENDED that it accepts the value advertised in the Encryption Flag field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the Encryption Flag field is set to 0 (not advertised), the caller MAY advertise its own cipher and key length.
If the induction response already advertises a certain value in the Encryption Flag, the caller MAY accept it or force its own value.
It is RECOMMENDED that if a caller will be sending the content, then it SHOULD force its own value. If it expects to receive content from the
SRT listener, then is it RECOMMENDED that it accepts the value advertised in the Encryption Flag field.
```

> An alternative behavior MAY be for a caller to take the longer key length in such case.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An alternative behavior MAY be for a caller to take the longer key length in such cases.
```

TODO: Receiver TSBPD Delay,  Sender TSBPD Delay.

The SRT Caller forms a Conclusion Request. The following values of a Handshake packet MUST be set by the compliant Caller:

- Destination SRT Socket ID: 0.
- HS Version: 5.
- Handshake Type: CONCLUSION.
- SRT Socket ID: Socket ID of the Caller.

> - SYN Cookie: the listener's cookie from the induction response.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- SYN Cookie: the Listener's cookie from the induction response.
```

- Encryption Flags: advertised cipher family and block size.
- Extension Flags: a set of flags that define the extensions provided in the handshake.
- The Handshake Extension Message {{handshake-extension-msg}} MUST be present in the conclusion response.

##### The Conclusion Response

> The SRT listener receives the Conclusion Request.
> If the values of the conclusion request are in any way not acceptable by the SRT listener side, the connection MUST

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The SRT Listener receives the conclusion request.
If the values of the conclusion request are in any way NOT acceptable on the SRT Listener side, the connection MUST
```

> be rejected by sending a Conclusion Response with the Handshake Type field carrying the rejection reason ({{hs-rej-reason}}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
be rejected by sending a conclusion response with the Handshake Type field carrying the rejection reason ({{hs-rej-reason}}).
```

NOTE: There seems to be some inconsistency in the use of initial caps for such terms as Caller, Listener, Conclusion Response, Cipher Family, Block Size, and others.

TODO: latency value. Special value 0.

TODO: Incorrect?
The only case when the Listener can have precedence over the Caller
is the advertised Cipher Family and Block Size (see {{handshake-encr-fld}})
in the Encryption Field of the Handshake.

The value for latency is always agreed to be the greater of those reported
by each party.

- Destination SRT Socket ID: the SRT Socket ID field value of the previously received conclusion request.

There is no "negotiation" at this point. 

### Rendezvous Handshake

The Rendezvous process uses a state machine. It is slightly
different from UDT Rendezvous handshake {{GHG04b}},
although it is still based on the same message request types.

> The states of a party are Waving, Conclusion and Agreement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The states of a party are Waving ("Wave A Hand"), Conclusion and Agreement.
```

    }
    <CODE ENDS>

#### The Waving State {#waving-state}

Both parties start in a Waving state.

> In the Waving state both Bob and Alice send a WAVEAHAND handshake

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the Waving state, the parties wishing to connect -- Bob and Alice -- each send a WAVEAHAND handshake message
```

with the fields set to the following values:

- HS Version: 5
- Type: Extension field: 0, Encryption field: advertised "PBKEYLEN"
- Handshake Type: WAVEAHAND ({{handshake-type}})
- SRT Socket ID: socket ID of the party (HS sender).
- SYN Cookie: Created based on host/port and current time.
- HS Extensions: none.

Legacy HS Version 4 clients do not look at the HS Version value,
whereas HS Version 5 clients can detect version 5.

> The parties only continue with the HS Version 5 Rendezvous process when Version is set to 5

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The parties only continue with the HS Version 5 Rendezvous process when HS Version is set to 5
```

> for both. Otherwise the process continues exclusively according to Version 4 rules {{GHG04b}}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for both. Otherwise the process continues exclusively according to HS Version 4 rules {{GHG04b}}.
```

roles. Each party generates a cookie value (a 32-bit number) based on the host,
port, and current time with 1 minute accuracy. This value is scrambled using
an MD5 sum calculation. The cookie values are then compared with one another.

Since it is impossible to have two sockets on the same machine bound to the same NIC
and port and operating independently, it is virtually impossible that the
parties will generate identical cookies. However, this situation may occur if an
application tries to "connect to itself" - that is, either connects to a local
IP address, when the socket is bound to INADDR_ANY, or to the same IP address to
which the socket was bound. If the cookies are identical (for any reason), the
connection will not be made until new, unique cookies are generated (after a
delay of up to one minute). In the case of an application "connecting to itself",
the cookies will always be identical, and so the connection will never be established.

If there is no response from a peer the WAVEAHAND handshake SHOULD be repeated every 250 ms
until a connection timeout expires. The connection timeout value is defined by the implementation.

> If a WAVEAHAND of CONCLUSION handshake is received from the peer, the state is transitioned to the Attention.

Reviewer: This sentence is unclear to me. Maybe

```suggestion
If a WAVEAHAND packet is received from the peer during a CONCLUSION handshake, the state is transitioned to ???.
```
What is "the Attention"?

#### Conclusion {#conclusion-state}

> In the Conclusion state the party has received and now knows the peer's cookie value.
> Thus it can perform the Cookie Contest
> (compare both cookie values according to {{cookie-contest}})
> and resolve its role.
> The resolution of the Handshake Role (Initiator or Responder) is essential for further processing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the Conclusion state each peer has received and now knows the other's cookie value.
Thus each peer can perform the Cookie Contest operation
(compare both cookie values according to {{cookie-contest}})
and thereby determine its role.
The determination of the Handshake Role (Initiator or Responder) is essential for further processing.
```

Initiator replies with a Conclusion request handshake:

- HS Version: 5
- Extension field: appropriate flags.
- Encryption field: advertised PBKEYLEN
- Handshake Type: CONCLUSION.
- Required Handshake Extension: HS Extension Message ({{handshake-extension-msg}})
  with HS Extension Type SRT_CMD_HSREQ.
- Other handshake extensions are allowed.

> If encryption is on, the Initiator will use either his
> own cipher family and block size or the one received from Alice (if she has advertised
> those values).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If encryption is on, the Initiator (Bob) will use either his
own cipher family and block size or the one received from Alice (if she has advertised
those values).
```

> The Responder with a Conclusion or a WAVEAHAND handshake without extensions until it receives the Conclusion Request from the peer:

Reviewer: This sentence is unclear and does not seem to sensibly follow from preceding lines 1753-1755.

- HS Version: 5
- Extension field: 0.
- Encryption field: advertised PBKEYLEN.
- Handshake Type: CONCLUSION.
- Handshake extensions are NOT allowed.

TODO: What to do if WAVEAHAND or AGREEMENT or else is received in this stage?
Repeat conclusion response but not more often that every 250 ms.

#### Initiated

> Alice receives Bob's CONCLUSION message. While at this point she also
>    performs the "cookie contest", the outcome will be the same. She switches to the
>    "fine" state, and sends:
>    - Version: 5
>    - Appropriate extension flags and encryption flags
>    - Handshake Type: CONCLUSION.
> 
>    Both parties always send extension flags at this point, which will
>    contain HSREQ if the message comes from an Initiator, or
>    HSRSP if it comes from a Responder. If the Initiator has received a
>    previous message from the Responder containing an advertised cipher family and block size in the
>    encryption flags field, it will be used as the key length
>    for key generation sent next in the KMREQ extension.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alice receives Bob's CONCLUSION message. While at this point she also
   performs the "cookie contest" operation, the outcome will be the same. She switches to the
   "fine" state, and sends:
   - Version: 5
   - Appropriate extension flags and encryption flags
   - Handshake Type: CONCLUSION

   Both parties always send extension flags at this point, which will
   contain HSREQ if the message comes from an Initiator, or
   HSRSP if it comes from a Responder. If the Initiator has received a
   previous message from the Responder containing an advertised cipher family and block size in the
   encryption flags field, it will be used as the key length
   for key generation sent next in the KMREQ extension.
```

- Improved the cookie contest description in the Rendezvous connection mode.
- Described the key material negotiation error during the handshake.
- Added AES-GCM mode to the key material message (SRT v1.6.0).

> - Imrpved handshake negotiation description.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Improved handshake negotiation description.
```
